## Class 6 Reading Notes

### Javascript
_____
#### Introduction
**JavaScript (JS)** is a lightweight, interpreted, or just-in-time compiled programming language w first-class functions.
- not to be confused with the Java programming language — JavaScript is not "Interpreted Java." The two programming languages have very different syntax, semantics, and use.
- JavaScript is also used in non-browser enviornments such as Node.js, Apache Couch DB, and Acrobat.
-supports object0oriented, imperative, and declarative (e.g. functional progamming) styles.
- capabilities include runtime object construction, variable parameter lists, function variables, dynamic script creation. object introspection, and source-code recovery.
- There are 3 major parts of what is uslally refered to as "JavaScript"
    - The language itself
    - the DOM API - how the language can interact with the various parts of a web page while in the browser
    - The provided server API
- can be used w any text editor
- JavaScript code can be directly embedded inside the HTML file or externally by adding a line in the HTML file that includes the external JavaScript file (recommended)

#### Some basic outputs  

- **_alert_** will show a pop-up in the browser w text. 
    ```
    <script language="javascript">  

    alert("Hello World");  

    </script>
    ```
- **_document.write_** function changes the content of the page.
``` 
    First line
    <script>

    document.write("<h1>Hello World</h1>");

    </script>
    Last line
```

- Developers usually print out debugging information using **_console.log_**
```  
    <script>

    console.log("Hello World");

    </script>
```

*** Most of the web browsers provide what is called a "JavaScript console". It is an additional window which is normally not visible, where the browser can print out warnings and errors generated by the execution of the JavaScript code. (E.g. if there is a syntax error in the code.) The developer can also print information to this console using the ```  console.log() call.  ```

#### Recieving Input w Prompt and Confirm
- **_prompt_** will show a pop-up window with the text provided as the first parameter and w a textbox the user can fill in. When the user presses OK, the value in the text box will be returned by the prompt() function.
```  
    <script>

    var name = prompt("Your name:", "");
    document.write("Hello ", name);

    </script>  
```  
- The textbox will be pre-filled with the content of the second parameter. This can be very useful if we would like to ask the user to edit some value. We can pre-fill the box with the old value.  

- Calling the **_confirm_** function will show a pop-up window with the provided texts and with two buttons. If the user presses _OK_ the confirm() function will return true, if the user presses cancel or hits the ESC key, the function will return false.  
```  
    <script>

    if (confirm("Shall I print Hello World?")) {
        document.write("Hello World");
    } else {
        document.write("OK, I won't print it.");
    }

    </script>  
```  
#### Ways to Declare a JavaScriot Variable
__*Variables*__ are containers for storing data (Storing data values).
- Creating a variable in JavaScript is called *declaring* a variable.
- they can be declared using ``` var ``` , ``` let ``` , and ``` const ```  

Example:  
``` var carName; ```  
or:  
``` let carName;```  

    After the declaration, the variable has no value (technically it is undefined). To assign a value to the variable, use the equal sign:  

```carName = "Volvo";```

    You can also assign a value to the variable when you declare it:

``` let carName = "Volvo";```   



Example
``` 
    <p id="demo"></p>

    <script>
    let carName = "Volvo";
    document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = carName;
    </script>
``` 
    In this example, we created a variable called carName and assigned the value "Volvo" to it. Then we "output" the value inside an HTML paragraph with id="demo"

- It is good programming practice to declare all variables at the beginning of a script.

- All JavaScript variables must be identified with unique names. These are called identifiers. They are case sensitive
- The general rules for constructing names for variables (unique identifiers) are:  
    - Names can contain letters, digits, underscores, and dollar signs.
    - Names must begin with a letter.
    - Names can also begin with $ and _.
    - Names are case sensitive (y and Y are different variables).
    - Reserved words (like JavaScript keywords) cannot be used as names.
- ```= ``` is an *assignment operator* in JavaScript
- The "equal to" operator is written like == in JavaScript
-text values are called **text strings**
- Strings are written inside double or single quotes. Numbers are written without quotes




